---
layout: post
title: 'El Celler de Can Roca: Appetizers'
date: 2024-05-14 03:37:00
description: 'Date of visit: March 22, 2024'
tags: tasting-menu spain catalan review
categories: Restaurants
thumbnail: #assets/img/240514_blog/1.jpg
images:
    slider: true
---

<swiper-container keyboard="true" navigation="true" pagination="true" pagination-clickable="true" pagination-dynamic-bullets="true" rewind="true">
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/10.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/8.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/9.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/11.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/12.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/13.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/14.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/15.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/240514_blog/16.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}</swiper-slide>
</swiper-container>

<div class="caption">
    We were bombarded with dish after dish.
</div>

It is common for boorish diners to misconstrue El Celler de Can Roca’s technical innovations as reason for their success. However, Can Roca is not meant to be experienced as an intellectual exercise. Instead, their cuisine involves us in a spiritual interrogation of the ultimate inquiries surrounding human nature. In essence, its dishes can be considered artistic experimentation in which the Roca brothers take themselves and their history as the subject. In an amuse-bouche sequence, a bonsai olive tree is hoisted onto your table, bearing golden spheres of olive ice cream. It is easy to see this dish as an exemplary metaphor for the modernist apparatus governing the Roca kitchen; a tree bearing this bohemian fruit must receive nourishment from a soil carrying centuries of history.   
     
This is what separates Can Roca from their contemporaries (especially in the U.S.) that attempt to serve globalist cuisine. Unlike these self-absorbed establishments, Can Roca’s creativity starts at the humanly impulse for life, in which one’s rebellious nature compels one to sort out and deconstruct their inherently disordered experiences and capture something that was previously nonexistent. Artists of this nature contemplate the past, but only for so long as to understand the spiritual memories of primitive humans, never to experience them, which saves them the energy to stabilize their emotional state into a structured reconstruction of nature.  
    
One who experiences the final stage of this work at Can Roca may gaze upon it for some time, then let the flavors and smells diffuse through them. At a certain moment, their aesthetic impulses may trigger a transcendental emotional experience, in which the narrative landscape of nature, emotion, produce, and the fraternal relationship of the three brothers are revealed in its special construction. This ephemeral speech communicates with one’s heart and memories, introspectively reconstructing nature within one’s soul. In this way, El Celler de Can Roca’s technoemotional cuisine brings us closer to what makes us human: the impulse to be free, constructive, and one with nature.
